Jp-3207 ifu outlier detection (#7590)
spacetelescope/jwst: docs/jwst/outlier_detection/outlier_detection_ifu.rst

This module serves as the interface for applying ``outlier_detection`` to IFU
observations, like those taken with NIRSpec and MIRI.  The code implements the
basic outlier detection algorithm searching for pixels that are consistent outliers

> on the data after the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>`. After launch it was discovered the

Reviewer: the end of this sentence "after the calwebb_spec2." doesn't make sense. Should it be something like "... pixels that are consistent outliers in the calibrated images created by the calwebb_spec2 pipeline"?

> bad pixels on the MIRI detectors vary with time. The pixels varied from usable to unsable, and at times,

Author: fixed

back to usable  on a time frame that was too short (sometimes as short as 2 days)  to fold into the bad pixel mask applied

> in the :ref:`calwebb_detector1 <calwebb_detector1>`. 

Reviewer: "... applied in the calwebb_detector1 *pipeline*"

At this time it is believed that NIRSpec IFU data also have bad pixels that vary with time, though the time variation is
still under study.

An algorithm was developed to flag pixels that are  outliers when compared to their neighbors for a set of

> input files contained in association. The neighbor pixel differences are defined by the dispersion axis. For MIRI data,

Reviewer: "... contained in *an* association."

Reviewer: Not obvious to me what "The neighbor pixel differences are defined by the dispersion axis" really means. Does it perhaps mean that the differences between neighbors are computed in the direction of the dispersion axis? And hence differences between pixels in the spatial direction are ignored?

Author: Opposite - neighbors are in the spatial direction. I have changed the language - see if makes sense now. 

An algorithm was developed to flag pixels that are  outliers when compared to their neighbors for a set of
input files contained in an association. The neighbor pixel differences are the neighbors in spatial direction. For MIRI data, the dispersion axis is along the y-axis,  neighbor differences are found to the left and right of every
science pixel. For NIRSpec data, the dispersion axis is along the x-axis,  neighbor differences are
found to between the pixels above and below every science pixel

the dispersion axis is along the y-axis and differences are found to the left and right of every
science pixel. For NIRSpec data, the dispersion axis is along the x-axis and differences are

> found to between the pixels above and below every science pixel. The pixel differences for each input model 

Reviewer: "found to between"  remove "to"

> in the associations is determined and is stored in a stack of pixel differences. 

Reviewer: associations should probably be singular here (i.e. "association") There's only 1 association being processed at a time.

For each pixel the minimum difference
through this stack is determined and normalized. The normalization uses a local median of the difference array

> (set by the kernel size). The input model DQ array is flagged as an outlier if this normalized minimum difference

Reviewer: The DQ array can't be flagged as an outlier. However, pixels that are seen as outliers can be flagged *in* the DQ array.

This module serves as the interface for applying ``outlier_detection`` to IFU

> observations, like those taken with NIRSpec and MIRI.  The code implements the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
observations, like those taken with NIRSpec and MIRI.
```

> basic outlier detection algorithm searching for pixels that are consistent outliers
> in the calibrated images created by the :ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline.
> After launch it was discovered the
> bad pixels on the MIRI detectors vary with time. The pixels varied from usable to unusable, and at times,
> back to usable  on a time frame that was too short (sometimes as short as 2 days)  to fold into the bad pixel mask applied
> in the :ref:`calwebb_detector1 <calwebb_detector1>` pipeline. 
> At this time it is believed that NIRSpec IFU data also have bad pixels that vary with time, though the time variation is
> still under study.
> 
> An algorithm was developed to flag pixels that are  outliers when compared to their neighbors for a set of
> input files contained in an association. The neighbor pixel differences are the neighbors in spatial direction. For MIRI data ,the neighbor differences are found to the left and right of every
> science pixel. While for NIRSpec data neighbor differences are
> found  between the pixels above and below every science pixel. The pixel differences for each input model 
> in the association is determined and is stored in a stack of pixel differences. 
> For each pixel the minimum difference
> through this stack is determined and normalized. The normalization uses a local median of the difference array
> (set by the kernel size). A pixel is flagged as an outlier if  this normalized minimum difference
> is greater than the input threshold percentage.  Pixels that are found to be outliers are flaged in in the DQ array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The algorithm searches for pixels in calibrated 2D IFU images created by the
:ref:`calwebb_spec2 <calwebb_spec2>` pipeline that are consistent outliers
across multiple exposures.
A complication with this approach is the fact that bad pixels on the MIRI detectors vary with time.
The pixels change state from usable to unusable and, at times,
back to usable on a time frame that is too short (sometimes as short as 2 days)  to fold into the bad pixel mask applied in the :ref:`calwebb_detector1 <calwebb_detector1>` pipeline. 
At this time it is believed that NIRSpec IFU data also have bad pixels that vary with time, though the time variation is
still under study.

The IFU algorithm detects and flags pixels that are  outliers when compared to their neighbors for a set of
input files contained in an association. The neighbors used in the pixel difference calculations are the neighbors
in the spatial direction along the IFU slices. For MIRI data, the neighbor differences are found to the left and right
of every science pixel (dispersion axis is vertical), while for NIRSpec data neighbor differences are
found  between the pixels above and below every science pixel (dispersion axis is horizontal).
The pixel differences for each image 
in the association are determined and stored in a stack of pixel differences. 
For each pixel the minimum difference
through this stack is determined and normalized. The normalization uses a local median of the difference array
(set by the kernel size). A pixel is flagged as an outlier if  this normalized minimum difference
is greater than the input threshold percentage.  Pixels that are found to be outliers are flaged in in the DQ array.
```
